**IPP Project**

parse.py

The main process of the SOL25 parser implementation works on the
foundation of using Lark library, focused on defining and processing
grammar in the code, with its specific set of features and limitations
to consider beforehand. The grammar was defined as strictly as possible
to be close to the main task, with slight differences needed for
adjustment such as transforming individual rules, for example Method â†’
Selector Block Method to method: (selector block)\*. The specific
approach required caused some limitations including later realization of
potential simplification of the overall subsequent process by making the
grammar more divided in smaller pieces, thus requiring less advanced
reaches into the nested children of the Tree and Tokens later.

The lexical and syntactic analysis thus mainly rely on the Lark's
ability to process these two, however there were some limitations like
reserved keyword use, which needed to be handled later in the
implementation. The builtin exceptions handle the UnexpectedCharacters
and UnexpectedToken as lexical and syntactic Errors 21 and 22
respectively.

Semantic analysis is what most of the code consists of and is done
through Lark's Visitor class instances and topdown approach of passing
through them, individually made to check the specific error which were
expected. They execute one by one, however firstly the Reserved Keyword
visitor is used to check the incorrect use of unwanted keywords in the
code. Following after is the check for Main class and run method, which
verifies the presence of Main with its run method block, in other case
causing the Error 31. After is the check for arity inside blocks, with
block parameters count and preceding identifier variables potentially
causing the Error 32. Next follow the verification of absence of
colliding variables, causing Error 34, and also checking for duplicate
parameters in the block.

Last is the biggest Visitor, which serves for verifying the use of only
defined classes, methods, and variables, those in their own blocks
exclusively. The implementation was longest as it required many nested
conditional if statements and saving the individual elements for later
checking. This visitor uses predefined elements, mostly methods, but
also constructor such as new and from. Those were all implemented using
sets and later utilized with the help of set unions. This Visitor class
also uses the \_\_init\_\_ constructor for storing variables that remain
consistent throughout the life of the class, but there were also outside
variables used for storing the saved elements.

The xml tree is created with the help of xml.etree.ElementTree which was
implemented using Transformer that transforms individual parts from the
grammar and appends the processed parts into the final result. This part
also posed challenges and with some details was not as clear as some
other parts of the implementation. The xml uses utf-8 encoding and
decoding for the standard output also enabled in pretty form thanks to
domXML class.
